README.md, before:

# Remind Me — Google Calendar Integrated Reminder App

Remind Me is a wrapper application to list and manage reminders based on Google Calendar. Built with React + TypeScript (Vite), Tailwind CSS, shadcn‑style components, system‑aware dark/light theme, and i18n (English + Bahasa Indonesia).

## Key Features

- Google Sign‑In (Google Identity Services, OAuth 2.0) directly in the browser.
- Display events/reminders from Google Calendar over a chosen time range.
- Create/edit form mirroring Google Calendar fields (summary, description, start/end, all‑day, location, color, visibility, transparency, attendees, recurrence RRULE, reminders).
- Delete events with confirmation.
- “Reminders only” filter to show only events that have reminders.
- Option to hide the “Birthdays” calendar for more relevant results.
- Mobile‑responsive UI, basic accessibility, loading skeleton, empty state, and informative error handling.
- Theme modes: System, Light, Dark (default follows the user system).
- i18n: English (default) and Bahasa Indonesia with a toggle.

## Tech Stack

- `React`, `TypeScript`, `Vite`
- `Tailwind CSS`, shadcn‑style custom minimal components
- `@tanstack/react-query` for fetching/caching
- `date-fns` for date formatting
- `react-icons` for icons

## Google Cloud Console Setup

1. Enable Google Calendar API in your Cloud project.
2. Create an OAuth Client ID of type `Web application`.
3. Add `Authorized JavaScript origins` for development: `http://localhost:5174/`.
4. Scopes required:
   - `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar.readonly`
   - `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar.events`
5. On the OAuth Consent Screen:
   - Set “User Type” to External.
   - Add your account under “Test users” if not published yet.

## Environment Configuration

Create `.env` or `.env.local` at project root:

```
VITE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=<YOUR_GOOGLE_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID>
```

## Local Development

- Install deps: `npm install`
- Run dev server: `npm run dev`
- Open: `http://localhost:5174/`

Note: The dev port is set to `5174` with `strictPort: true` to avoid conflicts.

## Important Files

- `src/lib/google.ts` — OAuth init, token acquisition, and `googleFetch` wrapper.
- `src/features/calendar/api.ts` — REST calls (list calendars/events, create, update, delete).
- `src/features/calendar/hooks.ts` — React Query hooks for calendars/events and mutations.
- `src/pages/LoginPage.tsx` — login page (title, tagline, language toggle, theme dropdown, footer credit).
- `src/pages/Dashboard.tsx` — reminders list, filters, CRUD actions, form dialog.
- `src/components/ReminderForm.tsx` — form mirroring Google Calendar fields.
- `src/providers/ThemeProvider.tsx` — `system | light | dark` mode with persistence.
- `src/providers/I18nProvider.tsx` — minimal i18n for en/id.

## Calendar API Integration

- List calendars: `GET /calendar/v3/users/me/calendarList`
- List events: `GET /calendar/v3/calendars/{calendarId}/events?singleEvents=true&orderBy=startTime&timeMin=...&timeMax=...`
- Create event: `POST /calendar/v3/calendars/{calendarId}/events`
- Update event: `PATCH /calendar/v3/calendars/{calendarId}/events/{eventId}`
- Delete event: `DELETE /calendar/v3/calendars/{calendarId}/events/{eventId}`

Form ↔ Google Calendar field mapping:

- Title → `summary`
- Description → `description`
- Location → `location`
- Start/End → `start.dateTime` / `end.dateTime` or `start.date` / `end.date` (all‑day)
- Time zone → `start.timeZone` / `end.timeZone` (optional)
- Color → `colorId`
- Visibility → `visibility` (`default` | `public` | `private` | `confidential`)
- Transparency → `transparency` (`opaque` | `transparent`)
- Guests → `attendees[].email`
- Recurrence → `recurrence[]` (RRULE, e.g. `RRULE:FREQ=DAILY;COUNT=10`)
- Reminders → `reminders.useDefault` or `reminders.overrides[]` ({ method: `popup` | `email`, minutes: number })

## UX & Responsiveness

- Dashboard uses responsive grid (1→2 columns), primary actions are full‑width on mobile.
- Form dialog has `max-height` and `overflow-y-auto` to prevent overlap.
- Toggles use a unified component to avoid label shifting.

## Security

- OAuth token stored in memory (with minimal optional persistence). Do not commit secrets.
- Avoid logging sensitive data. Use minimal scopes required.

## Troubleshooting

- 401/403 (Unauthorized/Forbidden):
  - Ensure client ID is correct, origin `http://localhost:5174/` is registered, consent screen/test users configured, scopes granted.
  - Re‑consent: click “Sign in with Google” again.
- “Happy birthday!” dominates results:
  - Adjust the time range (default: now → +30 days).
  - Enable “Reminders only” and “Hide Birthdays calendar”.

## Notes

- Some accounts have migrated “Reminders” to “Google Tasks”; this app uses Calendar `events + reminders` to indicate reminders.

## Credits

Made with ❤️ by Ryan Sutrisno — https://ryansutrisno.com

Commit message:

docs: update readme with new oauth scopes and features
Add new OAuth scopes for user profile and email access to support avatar display in navbar. Document new components like retro grid background and Open Graph image. Include breaking changes section detailing scope updates, account menu redesign, and default range preset changes.

README.md, after:

# Remind Me — Google Calendar Integrated Reminder App

Remind Me is a wrapper application to list and manage reminders based on Google Calendar. Built with React + TypeScript (Vite), Tailwind CSS, shadcn‑style components, system‑aware dark/light theme, and i18n (English + Bahasa Indonesia).

## Key Features

- Google Sign‑In (Google Identity Services, OAuth 2.0) directly in the browser.
- Display events/reminders from Google Calendar over a chosen time range.
- Create/edit form mirroring Google Calendar fields (summary, description, start/end, all‑day, location, color, visibility, transparency, attendees, recurrence RRULE, reminders).
- Delete events with confirmation.
- “Reminders only” filter to show only events that have reminders.
- Option to hide the “Birthdays” calendar for more relevant results.
- Mobile‑responsive UI, basic accessibility, loading skeleton, empty state, and informative error handling.
- Theme modes: System, Light, Dark (default follows the user system).
- i18n: English (default) and Bahasa Indonesia with a toggle.

## Tech Stack

- `React`, `TypeScript`, `Vite`
- `Tailwind CSS`, shadcn‑style custom minimal components
- `@tanstack/react-query` for fetching/caching
- `date-fns` for date formatting
- `react-icons` for icons

## Google Cloud Console Setup

1. Enable Google Calendar API in your Cloud project.
2. Create an OAuth Client ID of type `Web application`.
3. Add `Authorized JavaScript origins` for development: `http://localhost:5174/`.
4. Scopes required:
   - `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar.readonly`
   - `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar.events`
   - `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/userinfo.profile`
   - `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/userinfo.email`
5. On the OAuth Consent Screen:
   - Set “User Type” to External.
   - Add your account under “Test users” if not published yet.

## Environment Configuration

Create `.env` or `.env.local` at project root:

```
VITE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=<YOUR_GOOGLE_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID>
```

## Local Development

- Install deps: `npm install`
- Run dev server: `npm run dev`
- Open: `http://localhost:5174/`

Note: The dev port is set to `5174` with `strictPort: true` to avoid conflicts.

## Important Files

- `src/lib/google.ts` — OAuth init, token acquisition, and `googleFetch` wrapper.
- `src/features/calendar/api.ts` — REST calls (list calendars/events, create, update, delete).
- `src/features/calendar/hooks.ts` — React Query hooks for calendars/events and mutations.
- `src/pages/LoginPage.tsx` — login page (title, tagline, language toggle, theme dropdown, footer credit).
- `src/pages/Dashboard.tsx` — reminders list, filters, CRUD actions, form dialog.
- `src/components/ReminderForm.tsx` — form mirroring Google Calendar fields.
- `src/providers/ThemeProvider.tsx` — `system | light | dark` mode with persistence.
- `src/providers/I18nProvider.tsx` — minimal i18n for en/id.
- `src/components/ui/retro-grid.tsx` — animated retro grid background for the login page.
- `public/ReminderApps.png` — Open Graph image used for social sharing.

## Calendar API Integration

- List calendars: `GET /calendar/v3/users/me/calendarList`
- List events: `GET /calendar/v3/calendars/{calendarId}/events?singleEvents=true&orderBy=startTime&timeMin=...&timeMax=...`
- Create event: `POST /calendar/v3/calendars/{calendarId}/events`
- Update event: `PATCH /calendar/v3/calendars/{calendarId}/events/{eventId}`
- Delete event: `DELETE /calendar/v3/calendars/{calendarId}/events/{eventId}`

Form ↔ Google Calendar field mapping:

- Title → `summary`
- Description → `description`
- Location → `location`
- Start/End → `start.dateTime` / `end.dateTime` or `start.date` / `end.date` (all‑day)
- Time zone → `start.timeZone` / `end.timeZone` (optional)
- Color → `colorId`
- Visibility → `visibility` (`default` | `public` | `private` | `confidential`)
- Transparency → `transparency` (`opaque` | `transparent`)
- Guests → `attendees[].email`
- Recurrence → `recurrence[]` (RRULE, e.g. `RRULE:FREQ=DAILY;COUNT=10`)
- Reminders → `reminders.useDefault` or `reminders.overrides[]` ({ method: `popup` | `email`, minutes: number })

## UX & Responsiveness

- Dashboard uses responsive grid (1→2 columns), primary actions are full‑width on mobile.
- Form dialog has `max-height` and `overflow-y-auto` to prevent overlap.
- Toggles use a unified component to avoid label shifting.
- Theme control uses a compact icon toggle (sun/moon) for mobile friendliness.
- Account menu in the navbar groups language, theme and logout under a single avatar button.

## Security

- OAuth token stored in memory (with minimal optional persistence). Do not commit secrets.
- Avoid logging sensitive data. Use minimal scopes required.

## Troubleshooting

- 401/403 (Unauthorized/Forbidden):
  - Ensure client ID is correct, origin `http://localhost:5174/` is registered, consent screen/test users configured, scopes granted.
  - Re‑consent: click “Sign in with Google” again.
- “Happy birthday!” dominates results:
  - Adjust the time range (default: now → +30 days).
  - Enable “Reminders only” and “Hide Birthdays calendar”.

### Sharing / Open Graph previews
- If Facebook/Twitter shows “Invalid URL” for images, ensure `og:image` and `twitter:image` use absolute URLs (e.g., `https://your-domain/ReminderApps.png`).
- Place your image in `public/ReminderApps.png` so it is served statically at the site root after build.
- After changing meta tags, use the sharing debugger to refresh the cache.

### OAuth consent
- After adding the profile/email scopes, you may need to re‑consent. Use the login button again to grant new scopes.

## Breaking Changes

1. OAuth scopes updated: the app now requests `userinfo.profile` and `userinfo.email` to show the Google avatar and email in the navbar. Update your OAuth Consent Screen and re‑consent.
2. Account menu redesign: language, theme and logout are moved under a single avatar button. Theme control is an icon toggle (no dropdown).
3. Default range preset: the dashboard uses “This year” by default and auto‑fills the Start/Until fields. Presets are available for month/week and last year/month/week.
4. Login page background: animated retro grid added. Ensure the global CSS includes `@keyframes grid` and `.animate-grid`.
5. Open Graph image: use `public/ReminderApps.png` with an absolute URL in `index.html` for reliable social previews.

## Notes

- Some accounts have migrated “Reminders” to “Google Tasks”; this app uses Calendar `events + reminders` to indicate reminders.

## Credits

Made with ❤️ by Ryan Sutrisno — https://ryansutrisno.com
